releases: add 5.0.3 release notes (#5874)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.0.3.md

    - Support push fucntion unix_timestamp,concat,year,day,datediff,datesub,castTimeAsString,concat_ws down to TiFlash. [#25564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25564)
    - Planner/core: change agg cost factor [#25241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25241)
    - Planner/core: support limit push down [#25159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25159)
    - Support pushing down the `str_to_date` functions to TiFlash [#25148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25148)
    - Allow mpp outer join to choose the build table based on table row count [#25142](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25142)
    - Push down left/right/abs to tiflash [#25133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25133)
    - Support push down broadcast cartesian join to TiFlash [#25106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25106)
    - Planner/core: support union all for mpp. [#25051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25051)
    - Balance region for batch cop task [#24724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24724)
    - Store/copr: invalidate stale regions for Mpp query. [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - CDC: limit CDC sink memory consumption [#10305](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10305)
    - CDC: change old value cache to memory-bounded [#10313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10313)
```

    - Fix the case that there could be duplicate ranges for multi-column index. [#24635](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24635)
    - Fix a nulleq bug [#24633](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24633)
    - Executor: fix data race of parallel apply operator [#24345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24345)
    - Fix an issue that sorting on index-merge results in partition union reports 'index out of range'. [#24155](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24155)
    - Do not allow setting read timestamp to a future time. [#25761](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25761)
    - Fix the issue that ODBC-styled literal(like `{d '2020-01-01'}`...) cannot be used as the expression. [#25577](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25577)
    - Planner: select distinct should bypass batchget [#25533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25533)
    - Store/tikv: change backoff type for missed tiflash peer. [#24600](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24600)
    - Fix index-out-of-range error when checking only_full_group_by [#24016](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24016)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Fix wrong tikv_raftstore_hibernated_peer_state metric [#10431](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10431)
    - Copr: fix the wrong arguments type of json_unquote [#10424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10424)
    - Fix the issue that br reports file already exists error when TDE enabled during restoration [#10421](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10421)
    - Skip clearing callback during graceful shutdown to avoid breaking ACID in some cases [#10396](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10396)
    - Fix the bug that share read index for replica reads on a leader [#10391](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10391)
    - Copr: fix wrong function cast double to double [#10388](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10388)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes

Release date: June 30, 2021

TiDB version: 5.0.3

## Compatibility Changes

## New Features

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Tools

    - TiCDC

        * add a HTTP API to list changefeed info and check health info https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1955
add sasl scram support for kafka sink [#1942](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1942)
        * makes TiCDC support --data-dir at the server level [#2070](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2070)

```

    - Support pushing down the Broadcast Cartesian join to TiFlash [#25106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25106)
    - Support pushing down the `Union All` operator to TiFlash [#25051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25051)
    - Support balancing the MPP query workload among different TiFlash nodes based on Regions [#24724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24724)
    - Support invalidating stale Regions in the cache after the MPP query is executed [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)

+ TiKV

    - Limit the TiCDC sink's memory consumption [#10305](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10305)
    - Add the memory-bounded upper limit for the TiCDC old value cache [#10313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10313)

+ TiFlash

    - Support casting the `STRING` type to the `DOUBLE` type
    - Support the `STR_TO_DATE` function
    - Optimize the non-joined data in right outer join using multiple threads
    - Support the Cartesian join
    - Support the `LEFT()` and `RIGHT()` functions
    - Support automatically invalidating stale Regions in MPP queries
    - Support the `ABS()` function

> 

Reviewer 2: + Tools

    - TiCDC

        * Refine GRPC reconnect logic, increase the throughput of kv client [#1922](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1922)
        * Make sorter IO errors more user-friendly [#1977](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1977)

    - Fix a bug that TiFlash adds wrong padding for non-binary characters in the `CAST` function
    - Fix the issue of incorrect results when handling aggregation queries with complex `GROUP BY` columns
    - Fix the TiFlash panic issue that occurs under heavy write pressure
    - Fix the panic that occurs when the right jon key is not nullalbe and the left join key is nullable
    - Fix the potential issue that the `read-index` requests take a long time

+ Tools

    - BR

        * Fix parquet parse when parse decimal type [#1277](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1277)
        * Fix the bug that lightning returns EOF error when CSV file without '\r\n' at the last line and `strict-format = true` [#1189](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1189)
        * Fix the bug that lightning rebase wrong auto_increment base when the auto_increment field type is float or double [#1186](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1186)

## 以下 note 未分类。请将以下 note 进行分类 (New feature, Improvements, Bug fixes, Compatibility Changes 四类)，并移动到上面对应的标题下。如果某条 note 为多余的，请删除。如果漏抓取了 note，请手动补充

+ PD

    - release-note [#3798](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3798)

+ Tools

>     - TiCDC
> 
>         * Fix potential deadlocks [#2142](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2142)
>         * Fix a bug that could cause cdc server panic because of the late calculation of resolved ts [#2047](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2047)
>         * Fix panic when TiCDC fails to read `/proc/meminfo` [#2024](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2024)
>         * Reduce unnecessary memory consumption [#2012](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2012)
>         * Make sorter IO errors more user-friendly. [#1977](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1977)
>         * Fix Unified Sorter memory consumption when tables are many. [#1958](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1958)
>         * Decrease the default gRPC connection pool size to decrease goroutines count. [#1951](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1951)
>         * Fix a bug that some MySQL connection could leak after MySQL sink meets error and pauses. [#1946](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1946)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - TiCDC

        * Fix the problem that cdc owner exited due to emit checkpoint failure [#2031] (https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2031)
        * Fix a bug that some MySQL connection could leak after MySQL sink meets error and pauses [#1946](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1946)
        * Fix panic when TiCDC fails to read `/proc/meminfo` [#2024](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2024)
        * Reduce memory consumption [#2012](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2012), [#1958](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1958)
        * Fix a bug that could cause cdc server panic because of the late calculation of resolved ts [#2047](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2047)
        * Fix potential deadlocks for processor [#2142](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2142)

    - Backup & Restore (BR)

        * Fix the bug that all system tables are filtered when restoring [#1224](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1224)

    - TiDB Lightning

        * Fix lightning panic problem for some special data [#1268](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1268)
        * Fix lightning split large csv file EOF error during the split progress [#1189](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1189)
        * Fix the bug that lightning rebase wrong auto_increment base when the auto_increment field type is float or double [#1186](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1186)
        * Fix parquet parse for decimal types [#1277](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1277)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes

Release date: June 30, 2021

TiDB version: 5.0.3

## Compatibility Changes

## New Features

+ TiFlash

    - Support cast string as double push down [#2068](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2068)
    - Support pushing down the `str_to_date` function to TiFlash [#2063](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2063)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - Planner: push down topN to mpp. [#25162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25162)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support planner pushing down the TopN operator to MPP. [#25162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25162)
```

>     - Support planner pushing down the TopN operator to MPP. [#25162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25162)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support planner pushing down the TopN operator to MPP. [#25162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25162)
    - Enable the pushdown of builtin function `json_unquote()` to TiKV. [#25720](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25720)
    - Planner/core: remove the union branch with dual table. [#25614](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25614)
    - Support push down function replace to TiFlash. [#25565](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25565)
    - Support push fucntion unix_timestamp,concat,year,day,datediff,datesub,castTimeAsString,concat_ws down to TiFlash. [#25564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25564)
    - Planner/core: change agg cost factor [#25241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25241)
    - Planner/core: support limit push down [#25159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25159)
    - Support pushing down the `str_to_date` functions to TiFlash [#25148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25148)
    - Allow mpp outer join to choose the build table based on table row count [#25142](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25142)
    - Push down left/right/abs to tiflash [#25133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25133)
    - Support push down broadcast cartesian join to TiFlash [#25106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25106)
    - Planner/core: support union all for mpp. [#25051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25051)
    - Balance region for batch cop task [#24724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24724)
    - Store/copr: invalidate stale regions for Mpp query. [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Use multi threads for not joined data in right outer join. [#2094](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2094)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix incorrect result of set type for merge join [#25694](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25694)

>     - Expression: fix IN expr critical bug [#25666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25666)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `IN` expression arguments corruption issue. [#25666](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25666)
```

    - Avoid sessions of GC being affected by global variables [#25609](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25609)
    - Make sure limit outputs no more columns than its child [#25517](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25517)
    - Planner: fix a panic caused by sinking a Limit with inlined Proj into IndexLookUp when accessing a partition table [#25139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25139)
    - Executor: fix ifnull bug when arg is enum/set [#25116](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25116)
    - Generate correct number of rows when all agg funcs are pruned [#25062](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25062)
    - Executor: make the ParallelApply be safe to be called again after returning empty results [#25011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25011)
    - Fix the case that there could be duplicate ranges for multi-column index. [#24635](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24635)
    - Fix a nulleq bug [#24633](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24633)
    - Executor: fix data race of parallel apply operator [#24345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24345)

>     - Fix an issue that sorting on index-merge results in partition union reports 'index out of range'. [#24155](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24155)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix an issue that sorting on index-merge results in partition union reports 'index out of range'. [#24155](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24155)
    - Do not allow setting read timestamp to a future time. [#25761](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25761)
    - Fix the issue that ODBC-styled literal(like `{d '2020-01-01'}`...) cannot be used as the expression. [#25577](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25577)
    - Planner: select distinct should bypass batchget [#25533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25533)
    - Store/tikv: change backoff type for missed tiflash peer. [#24600](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24600)
    - Fix index-out-of-range error when checking only_full_group_by [#24016](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24016)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash nodes keep restart because of split failure. [#2219](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2219)
    - Fix the bug that TiFlash can not GC delta data under rare case [#2185](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2185)
    - Fix the bug that tiflash wrongly add padding for non-binary chars in cast function [#2092](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2092)
    - Fix a bug that aggregation query with complex group by column may got wrong results. [#2072](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2072)

>     - Fix the bug that TiFlash may panic under heavy write pressure [#2055](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2055)

Reviewer 4: + TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash keeps restarting because of split failure
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash can not GC delta data
    - Fix the bug that TiFlash adds wrong padding for non-binary chars in `CAST` function
    - Fix the issue of incorrect results when handling aggregation queries with complex `GROUP BY` columns
    - Fix the TiFlash panic issue that occurs under heavy write pressure
    - Fix the panic that occurs when right join if the right jon key is not nullalbe and the left join key is nullable
    - Fix the potential issue that read-index requests cost long time

+ Tools

    - BR

        * Fix parquet parse when parse decimal type [#1277](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1277)
        * Fix the bug that lightning returns EOF error when CSV file without '\r\n' at the last line and `strict-format = true`. [#1189](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1189)
        * Fix the bug that lightning rebase wrong auto_increment base when the auto_increment field type is float or double. [#1186](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1186)

## 以下 note 未分类。请将以下 note 进行分类 (New feature, Improvements, Bug fixes, Compatibility Changes 四类)，并移动到上面对应的标题下。如果某条 note 为多余的，请删除。如果漏抓取了 note，请手动补充

> + TiDB
> 
>     - Do not allow setting read timestamp to a future time. [#25761](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25761)
>     - Enable the pushdown of builtin function `json_unquote()` to TiKV. [#25720](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25720)
>     - Planner/core: remove the union branch with dual table. [#25614](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25614)
>     - Fix the issue that ODBC-styled literal(like `{d '2020-01-01'}`...) cannot be used as the expression. [#25577](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25577)
>     - Support push down function replace to TiFlash. [#25565](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25565)
>     - Support push fucntion unix_timestamp,concat,year,day,datediff,datesub,castTimeAsString,concat_ws down to TiFlash. [#25564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25564)
>     - Planner: select distinct should bypass batchget [#25533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25533)
>     - Planner/core: change agg cost factor [#25241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25241)
>     - Planner/core: support limit push down [#25159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25159)
>     - Support pushing down the `str_to_date` functions to TiFlash [#25148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25148)
>     - Allow mpp outer join to choose the build table based on table row count [#25142](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25142)
>     - Push down left/right/abs to tiflash [#25133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25133)
>     - Support push down broadcast cartesian join to TiFlash [#25106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25106)
>     - Planner/core: support union all for mpp. [#25051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25051)
>     - Balance region for batch cop task [#24724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24724)
>     - Store/tikv: change backoff type for missed tiflash peer. [#24600](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24600)
>     - Store/copr: invalidate stale regions for Mpp query. [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)
>     - Fix index-out-of-range error when checking only_full_group_by [#24016](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24016)
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+ TiKV

    - release-note [#10431](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10431)
    - Copr: fix the wrong arguments type of json_unquote [#10424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10424)
    - Fix the issue that br reports file already exists error when TDE enabled during restoration. [#10421](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10421)
    - This bug does not affects existing releases. [#10417](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10417)
    - release-note [#10401](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10401)
    - release-note [#10396](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10396)
    - Fix a bug that share read index for replica reads on a leader [#10391](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10391)
    - release-note [#10388](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10388)
    - release-note [#10313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10313)
    - Limit CDC sink memory consumption. [#10305](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10305)

+ PD

    - release-note [#3798](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3798)

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Fix segment fault for right join if the right jon key is not nullalbe and the left join key is nullable [#2201](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2201)
>     - Fix the potential issue that read-index requests cost long time [#2091](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2091)
>     - Support cartesian join in TiFlash [#2078](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2078)
>     - Push down Left/right to tiflash [#2076](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2076)
>     - Push down abs() to tiflash [#2075](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2075)
>     - Invalidate stale regions for Mpp query. [#1877](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/1877)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Release date: June 30, 2021

TiDB version: 5.0.3

## New Features

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Add an HTTP API to get the changefeed information and the health information of the node [#1955](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1955)
        - Add the SASL/SCRAM support for the kafka sink [#1942](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1942)
        - Makes TiCDC support `--data-dir` at the server level [#2070](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2070)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Support pushing down the `TopN` operator to TiFlash [#25162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25162)
    - Support pushing down the built-in function `json_unquote()` to TiKV [#25720](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25720)
    - Support removing the union branch from the dual table [#25614](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25614)
    - Support pushing down the built-in function `replace()` to TiFlash [#25565](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25565)
    - Support pushing down the built-in functions `unix_timestamp()`, `concat()`, `year()`, `day()`, `datediff()`, `datesub()`, `castTimeAsString()`, and `concat_ws()` to TiFlash [#25564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25564)

>     - Change the aggregate operator's cost factor [#25241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25241)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the aggregate operator's cost factor [#25241](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25241)
```

    - Support pushing down the `Limit` operator to TiFlash [#25159](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25159)
    - Support pushing down the built-in function `str_to_date` to TiFlash [#25148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25148)
    - Allow the MPP outer join to choose the build table based on the table row count [#25142](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25142)
    - Support pushing down the built-in functions `left()`, `right()`, and `abs()` to TiFlash [#25133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25133)
    - Support pushing down the Broadcast Cartesian join to TiFlash [#25106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25106)
    - Support pushing down the `Union All` operator to TiFlash [#25051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25051)
    - Support balancing the MPP query workload among different TiFlash nodes based on Regions [#24724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24724)

>     - Support invalidating stale Regions in the cache after the MPP query is executed [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support invalidating stale Regions in the cache after the MPP query is executed [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)
    - Improve the MySQL compatibility of built-in function `str_to_date` for the format specifiers `%b/%M/%r/%T` [#25767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25767)
```

    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when using `limit` in the window function queries [#25517](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25517)
    - Fix the wrong value returned when querying a partitioned table using `Limit` [#25139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25139)
    - Fix the issue that `IFNULL` does not correctly take effect on the `ENUM` or `SET` type column [#25116](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25116)
    - Fix the wrong results caused by changing the `count` in the join subqueries to `first_row` [#25062](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25062)
    - Fix the query hang issue that occurs when `ParallelApply` is used under the `TopN` operator [#25011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25011)
    - Fix the issue that more results than expected are returned when executing SQL statements using multi-column prefix indexes [#24635](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24635)
    - Fix the issue that the `<=>` operator cannot correctly take effect [#24633](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24633)
    - Fix the data race issue of the parallel `Apply` operator [#24345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24345)

>     ?- Fix the issue that the sorting on `IndexMerge` results in the partition union reports the `index out of range` error [#24155](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24155)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `index out of range` error is reported when sorting the IndexMerge results of the PartitionUnion operator [#24155](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24155)
```

    - Do not allow setting a read timestamp to a future time [#25761](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25761)
    - Fix the issue that the ODBC-styled constant (for example, `{d '2020-01-01'}`) cannot be used as the expression [#25577](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25577)
    - Fix the issue that `SELECT DISTINCT` converted to `Batch Get` causes incorrect results [#25533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25533)
    - Fix the issue that backing off queries from TiFlash to TiKV cannot be triggered [#24600](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24600)

>     - Fix the `index-out-of-range` error that occurs when checking `only_full_group_by` [#24016](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24016)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `index-out-of-range` error that occurs when checking `only_full_group_by` [#24016](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24016)
    - Fix the issue that query with `TABLESAMPLE` on empty table returns unexpected rows [#25795](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25795)
    - Fix the issue that the result of index join in associated subqueries is wrong [#25818](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25818)
```

+ TiKV

    - Fix the wrong `tikv_raftstore_hibernated_peer_state` metric [#10431](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10431)
    - Fix the wrong arguments type of the `json_unquote()` function in the coprocessor [#10424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10424)
    - Fix the issue that Backup & Restore reports the error of "file already exists" when TDE is enabled during the restore [#10421](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10421)
    - Skip clearing callback during graceful shutdown to avoid breaking ACID in some cases [#10396](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10396)
    - Fix a bug that the read index is shared for replica reads on a Leader [#10391](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10391)
    - Fix the wrong function that casts `DOUBLE` to `DOUBLE` [#10388](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10388)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash keeps restarting because of the split failure

>     ?- Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot GC delta data

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    ?- Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot remove the delta data
```

    - Fix a bug that TiFlash adds wrong padding for non-binary characters in the `CAST` function
    - Fix the issue of incorrect results when handling aggregation queries with complex `GROUP BY` columns
    - Fix the TiFlash panic issue that occurs under heavy write pressure
    - Fix the panic that occurs when the right jon key is not nullalbe and the left join key is nullable

>     - Fix the potential issue that the `read-index` requests take a long time

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential issue that the `read-index` requests take a long time
    - Fix the panic that occurs when the read load is heavy
```
Introduced by https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2274

        - Fix a bug that some MySQL connection might leak after MySQL sink meets the error and pauses [#1946](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1946)
        - Fix the panic issue that occurs when TiCDC fails to read `/proc/meminfo` [#2024](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2024)
        - Reduce TiCDC's runtime memory consumption [#2012](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2012), [#1958](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1958)
        - Fix a bug that might cause TiCDC server panic due to the late calculation of resolved ts [#2047](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2047)
        - Fix the potential deadlock issue for the processor [#2142](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2142)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix a bug that all system tables are filtered during restore [#1224](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1224)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the TiDB Lightning panic issue for some special data [#1268](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1268)
        - Fix the EOF error reported when TiDB Lightning splits the imported large CSV files [#1189](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1189)

>         ?- Fix a bug that TiDB Lightning rebase wrong `auto_increment` base when the `auto_increment` field type is `FLOAT` or `DOUBLE` [#1186](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1186)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that an excessively large base value is generated when TiDB Lightning imports tables with the `auto_increment` column of the `FLOAT` or `DOUBLE` type [#1186](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1186)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes

> Release date: June 30, 2021

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Release date: July 2, 2021
```

TiDB version: 5.0.3

## New Features

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Add an HTTP API to get the changefeed information and the health information of the node [#1955](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1955)
        - Add the SASL/SCRAM support for the kafka sink [#1942](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1942)
        - Makes TiCDC support `--data-dir` at the server level [#2070](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2070)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Support pushing down the `TopN` operator to TiFlash [#25162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25162)
    - Support pushing down the built-in function `json_unquote()` to TiKV [#25720](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25720)
    - Support removing the union branch from the dual table [#25614](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25614)
    - Support pushing down the built-in function `replace()` to TiFlash [#25565](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25565)

>     - Support pushing down the built-in functions `unix_timestamp()`, `concat()`, `year()`, `day()`, `datediff()`, `datesub()`, `castTimeAsString()`, and `concat_ws()` to TiFlash [#25564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25564)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support pushing down the built-in functions `unix_timestamp()`, `concat()`, `year()`, `day()`, `datediff()`, `datesub()`, and `concat_ws()` to TiFlash [#25564](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25564)
```

    - Fix the issue that queries with `TABLESAMPLE` on an empty table returns unexpected rows [#25795](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25795)
    - Fix the issue that the result of index join in correlated subqueries is wrong [#25818](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25818)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the wrong `tikv_raftstore_hibernated_peer_state` metric [#10431](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10431)
    - Fix the wrong arguments type of the `json_unquote()` function in the coprocessor [#10424](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10424)
    - Fix the issue that Backup & Restore reports the error of "file already exists" when TDE is enabled during the restore [#10421](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10421)
    - Skip clearing callback during graceful shutdown to avoid breaking ACID in some cases [#10396](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10396)
    - Fix a bug that the read index is shared for replica reads on a Leader [#10391](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10391)
    - Fix the wrong function that casts `DOUBLE` to `DOUBLE` [#10388](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10388)

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
+ PD

    - Fix the data race when the scheduler is started before loading TTL configurations [#3774](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3774)
    - Fix the bug that the `is_learner` field of the Region Peer in TiDB is incorrect [#3743](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3743)
    - Fix the issue that when all tikv in a zone are offline or down, PD does not move replicas to another zone [#3742](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3742)
    - Fix pd may get panic during scattering region [#3762](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3762)

```

    - Fix a bug that the `is_learner` field of the `TIKV_REGION_PEERS` table in TiDB is incorrect [#3372](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3372) [#24293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24293)
    - Fix the issue that when all TiKV nodes in a zone are offline or down, PD does not schedule replicas to other zones [#3705](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3705)
    - Fix the issue that PD might get panic after the scatter Region scheduler is added [#3762](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3762)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash keeps restarting because of the split failure
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot delete the delta data
    - Fix a bug that TiFlash adds wrong padding for non-binary characters in the `CAST` function
    - Fix the issue of incorrect results when handling aggregation queries with complex `GROUP BY` columns
    - Fix the TiFlash panic issue that occurs under heavy write pressure
    - Fix the panic that occurs when the right jon key is not nullalbe and the left join key is nullable
    - Fix the potential issue that the `read-index` requests take a long time
    - Fix the panic issue that occurs when the read load is heavy

> 

Reviewer 8: - Fix panic issue that occurs when `Date_Format(string_column)` is called with NULL values in the string column.

---
title: TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes

Release date: July 2, 2021

TiDB version: 5.0.3

## Compatibility Change

+ TiDB

    - After a v4.0 cluster is upgraded to v5.0 or a later version (dev or v5.1), the default value of the `tidb_multi_statement_mode` variable changes from `WARN` to `OFF`

## Feature Enhancements

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Add an HTTP API to get the changefeed information and the health information of the node [#1955](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1955)
        - Add the SASL/SCRAM support for the kafka sink [#1942](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1942)
        - Makes TiCDC support `--data-dir` at the server level [#2070](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2070)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Support pushing down the `TopN` operator to TiFlash [#25162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25162)

>     - Support pushing down the built-in function `json_unquote()` to TiKV [#25720](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25720)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Support pushing down the built-in function `json_unquote()` to TiKV [#24415](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24415)
```

    - Support balancing the MPP query workload among different TiFlash nodes based on Regions [#24724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24724)
    - Support invalidating stale Regions in the cache after the MPP query is executed [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)
    - Improve the MySQL compatibility of the built-in function `str_to_date` for the format specifiers `%b/%M/%r/%T` [#25767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25767)

+ TiKV

    - Limit the TiCDC sink's memory consumption [#10305](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10305)
    - Add the memory-bounded upper limit for the TiCDC old value cache [#10313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10313)

+ PD

    - Update TiDB Dashboard to v2021.06.15.1 [#3798](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3798)

+ TiFlash

    - Support casting the `STRING` type to the `DOUBLE` type
    - Support the `STR_TO_DATE` function
    - Optimize the non-joined data in right outer join using multiple threads
    - Support the Cartesian join
    - Support the `LEFT()` and `RIGHT()` functions
    - Support automatically invalidating stale Regions in MPP queries
    - Support the `ABS()` function

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Refine gRPC's reconnection logic and increase the KV client's throughput [#1586](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1586) [#1501](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1501#issuecomment-820027078) [#1682](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1682) [#1393](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1393) [#184s7](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1847) [#1905](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1905) [#1904](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1904)
>         - Make the sorter I/O errors more user-friendly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Refine gRPC's reconnection logic and increase the KV client's throughput [#1586](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1586) [#1501](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1501#issuecomment-820027078) [#1682](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1682) [#1393](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1393) [#1847](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1847) [#1905](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1905) [#1904](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1904)
        - Make the sorter I/O errors more user-friendly [#1977](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1977)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.0.3 Release Notes

Release date: July 2, 2021

TiDB version: 5.0.3

> ## Compatibility Change

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Compatibility Changes
```

+ TiDB

    - After a v4.0 cluster is upgraded to v5.0 or a later version (dev or v5.1), the default value of the `tidb_multi_statement_mode` variable changes from `WARN` to `OFF`

>     - TiDB is now compatible with MySQL 5.7's noop variable `innodb_default_row_format` [#23541](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23541)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - TiDB is now compatible with MySQL 5.7's noop variable `innodb_default_row_format`. Setting this variable will have no effect. [#23541](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23541)
```

    - Support pushing down the Broadcast Cartesian join to TiFlash [#25106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25106)
    - Support pushing down the `Union All` operator to TiFlash [#25051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25051)
    - Support balancing the MPP query workload among different TiFlash nodes based on Regions [#24724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24724)
    - Support invalidating stale Regions in the cache after the MPP query is executed [#24432](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/24432)
    - Improve the MySQL compatibility of the built-in function `str_to_date` for the format specifiers `%b/%M/%r/%T` [#25767](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/25767)

+ TiKV

    - Limit the TiCDC sink's memory consumption [#10305](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10305)
    - Add the memory-bounded upper limit for the TiCDC old value cache [#10313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10313)

+ PD

    - Update TiDB Dashboard to v2021.06.15.1 [#3798](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3798)

+ TiFlash

    - Support casting the `STRING` type to the `DOUBLE` type

>     - Support the `STR_TO_DATE` function

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Support the `STR_TO_DATE()` function
```
If we use `LEFT()`, `RIGHT()` and `ABS()` we should be consistent in adding `()` for functions.

    - Fix the data race issue of the parallel `Apply` operator [#23280](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23280)
    - Fix the issue that the `index out of range` error is reported when sorting the IndexMerge results of the PartitionUnion operator [#23919](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23919)
    - Fix the issue that setting the `tidb_snapshot` variable to an unexpectedly large value might damage the transaction isolation [#25680](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25680)
    - Fix the issue that the ODBC-styled constant (for example, `{d '2020-01-01'}`) cannot be used as the expression [#25531](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25531)
    - Fix the issue that `SELECT DISTINCT` converted to `Batch Get` causes incorrect results [#25320](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25320)
    - Fix the issue that backing off queries from TiFlash to TiKV cannot be triggered [#23665](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23665) [#24421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24421)
    - Fix the `index-out-of-range` error that occurs when checking `only_full_group_by` [#23839](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23839))

>     - Fix the issue that queries with `TABLESAMPLE` on an empty table returns unexpected rows [#25257](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25257)

Reviewer 9: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/issues/5915

Reviewer 5: @tangenta PTAL. Could you help add the document of `TABLESAMPLE`?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
